---
title: "Web Directions South 2007"
redirect_from: "/posts/web_directions_south_2007/"
categories:
  - wds07
  - sydney
  - webjam
  - rails
  - conference
---
It's a bit delayed, but I just wanted to write a little report (read: link to everyone and reminisce) on my trip to Sydney for Web Directions South 2007. So, in chronological order...

h3. The Conference

I hadn't been to Web Directions before - but I had made it to one of the preceding Web Essentials conferences, which had been great. This time around though, far better - for a variety of reasons. One difference was finding it really helps knowing a few people who are also attending - that strengthens the whole social side of the conference.

Some of the speakers, though, were brilliant. Andy Clarke ran "an interesting session about the design of comics":http://www.webdirections.org/resources/andy-clarke/, John Allsop's passion for the web was evident in his "entertaining talk":http://www.webdirections.org/resources/john-allsopp/, and Scott Berkun's presentation about "the myths of innovation":http://www.webdirections.org/resources/scott-berkun/ was fantastic as well.

The highlight, though (and I think most people who were there agree with this) was Mark Pesce's "Mob Rules":http://www.webdirections.org/resources/mark-pesce/. Grab the podcast of his talk and listen to it (any parts that interrupt Mark are clips from Robot Chicken). Mark's an amazing speaker, and his content was thought-provoking. A fantastic way to end the conference.

h3. The After-Party

After that, it was to the Shelbourne Hotel to drink, chat and party into the early hours of the morning. While I didn't really contribute to drinking through the Microsoft-provided tab, I did get to meet several interesting people. One of which was "John Allsop":http://westciv.typepad.com/dog_or_higher/, who was one of the organisers of Web Directions. I'd like to say _we_ discussed politics, social issues and the web - but to be honest, it was more John ranting and me listening (not that that's a bad thing, John's always entertaining).

John also pseudo-introduced me to "Michael Koukoullis":http://andrewsmustresign.com/, which, joined by "Nick Pellow":http://voteforkevin.com.au/, lead to further opinionated discussion about politics. There's a blog post prompted by the topics we covered (and "one":http://westciv.typepad.com/dog_or_higher/2007/09/so-we-spent-250.html of John's blog posts) sitting in my head - hopefully I'll get it down into some textual form at some point soon.

h3. Web Shack at the Nerf Palace

The following day was filled with code - well, that was "the plan":http://nerfpalace.org. Most of us were pretty drained from the previous night, and I also got distracted by the AFL Grand Final.

I did manage to get pagination working in "Thinking Sphinx":http://ts.freelancing-gods.com though, and technorati support for this blog. I also got to experience the the tasty delights of Bourke St Bakery (particularly their raspberry and dark chocolate muffins) - so it definitely wasn't a waste of time. Was also great to catch up properly with "some":http://smartbomb.com.au/ "of":http://blog.allen.com.au/ "the":http://toolmantim.com/ "roro":http://drnicwilliams.com/ "crew":http://myles.eftos.id.au/blog/.

h3. WebJam

And then onto the fantastic "WebJam":http://webjam.com.au/ - which involved more drinks, partying, presentations of funky web stuff, and meeting people. Once that eventually wound up, I was introduced to what is apparently a Sydney institution, "Harry's Cafe de Wheels":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry's_Cafe_de_Wheels - their Tiger Pie tasted far better than what I was expecting.

Which pretty much brings us to the end of my Sydney adventures (for this journey north, anyway). Massive thanks to all involved in the events, each was awesome.

