---
title: "Postcode API"
redirect_from: "/posts/postcode_api/"
categories:
  - REST
  - api
  - postcodes
  - merb
  - ruby
  - australia
---
A couple of weeks ago I quickly coded a basic webservice - using "Merb":http://merbivore.com - for Australian Postcode data. Just got hosting for it sorted out last night, so now I can blog about it.

h3. "Postie":http://auspostie.com

The emphasis is on simple - you can search by postcode or suburb, and get the data back either as a HTML page, XML, or JSON. That's pretty much it. The request urls aren't complicated, either:

* "auspostie.com/Brunswick":http://auspostie.com/Brunswick
* "auspostie.com/Brunswick.js":http://auspostie.com/Brunswick.js
* "auspostie.com/Brunswick.xml":http://auspostie.com/Brunswick.xml
* "auspostie.com/2782":http://auspostie.com/2782
* "auspostie.com/2782.js":http://auspostie.com/2782.js
* "auspostie.com/2782.xml":http://auspostie.com/2782.xml

Suburb requests use partial matching, so you don't need the full suburb name. If you want the JSON returned with the MIME type of @application/json@, use the @.json@ extension.

I've no plans at this point on using this, but perhaps it's useful for someone out there - if so, would love to hear about it.

----

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">"Tim Lucas":http://toolmantim.com left a comment on 30 Dec, 2007:</div>

<div class="comment">
That's really cool. I'm sure someone will find it handy.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"shoaib":http://nomad-labs.com left a comment on 30 Dec, 2007:</div>

<div class="comment">
well done Pat, this will come in handy
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Dr Nic":http://drnicwilliams.com left a comment on 30 Dec, 2007:</div>

<div class="comment">
Ooh tastie indeed.

A cmd-line wrapper for the API would be like a tastie toasted sandwich.

</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Marston A.":http://www.marstononline.com left a comment on 19 Jan, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hey Pat,

This looks like a great tool indeed! Would you happen to know of any similar API's/Plug-in's for U.S. Postal Codes?
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 20 Jan, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Heya Marston

It looks like the USPS has a couple of APIs that do the job - there's "documentation on their site"http://www.usps.com/webtools/technical.htm

Not quite as simple as mine... but if you find a csv or similar of _all_ the US zip codes and matching cities and states, I could look at building an equivalent service for it.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Matthew Lock":http://perthonline.net left a comment on 20 May, 2011:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hello, could you make your webservice available via JSONP by adding a ?callback= parameter to your .js url? That way we can call your API from javascript in a web page.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSONP

http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.getJSON/
</div>

</div>
