---
title: "Sphinx Quick Fix"
redirect_from: "/posts/sphinx_quick_fix/"
categories:
  - search
  - mac
  - leopard
  - sphinx
---
Here's one small filesystem tweak that's been handy as I've been slowly rebuilding my development environment on Leopard over the last couple of days. It's to get "Sphinx":http://www.sphinxsearch.com working - there was no problems with compilation or installation, but when I ran searchd or indexer, it complained about not finding the mysql libraries:

<pre><code>dyld: Library not loaded: /usr/local/mysql/lib/mysql/libmysqlclient.15.dylib
  Referenced from: /usr/local/bin/indexer
  Reason: image not found</code></pre>

Now, the expected file path is incorrect - it shouldn't have the second 'mysql'. My attempts to change that with various configuration flags didn't work, so I cheated, and added the folder as a symbolic link:

<pre><code>sudo ln -s /usr/local/mysql/lib /usr/local/mysql/lib/mysql</code></pre>

Suggestions of a cleaner solution always welcome.

----

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">"Jon Crawford":http://joncrawford.com left a comment on  4 Jul, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hey, I just found this article while having similar issues.  I found this article at the same time.
http://mrpmorris.blogspot.com/2007/06/installing-rails-on-mac.html

Towards the bottom it speaks about these issues and offers a different solution and an explanation for the problem.  I went with your solution for fear of screwing up my currently-functioning Rails stack.

I don't understand all the mechanics of everything, but if you think the other article is a better solution, please let me know.

Thanks!
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on  4 Jul, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hi Jon

Good to know this post was helpful to someone. Looking at the other solution, I'm not sure which is better - they are using an Apple CLI tool, so perhaps that's the recommended solution... but like you, I don't have my head around the mechanics of it all, so I'm not sure.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">Reset left a comment on 18 May, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Late response, but this might be helpful for somebody.

When you ./configure sphinx you should specify your lib and includes directory like this..

./configure --with-mysql-includes=/usr/local/mysql/include/mysql/ --with-mysql-libs=/usr/local/mysql/lib/mysql/

That should solve your problem.
</div>

</div>
