---
title: "A Quick Focus on Javascript"
redirect_from: "/posts/a_quick_focus_on_javascript"
categories:
  - javascript
  - html
---
Neat little refactoring trick for the day (as I've just recounted to the <a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/roro">roro crew</a>)...

I found myself writing several @window.onload@ event listeners in javascript to set focus to the default text inputs on various pages. It's annoying, and doesn't feel at all elegant, so to make it a little cleaner, I wrote a single onload listener, which grabbed the last item with the class 'autofocus', and set focus to that. So now all I need to do for future pages is give the text input a class of 'autofocus'.

Javascript code, with prototype:

<pre><code>Event.observe(window, "load", function() {
  var last = $$(".autofocus").last();
  if (last) last.focus();
});</code></pre>

Not so useful if you rarely have default text fields, but for the app I'm working on, there's a lot of different pages, hence why I'm quite happy with the above solution.

----

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">"Anthony kolber":http://www.aestheticallyloyal.com left a comment on 15 Oct, 2007:</div>

<div class="comment">
You should try out jquery meng.
The $() function is lovely. Faster than prototype and feels much more elegant.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 15 Oct, 2007:</div>

<div class="comment">
Yeah, would like to really get stuck into jQuery, but at the moment I'm using the Autocompleter from scriptaculous, and a lightbox built off prototype...

If I get bored, I might try rewriting those parts into jQuery, but unlikely that'll happen anytime soon.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Ben Schwarz":http://germanforblack.com/ left a comment on 17 Oct, 2007:</div>

<div class="comment">
You should probably apply that code to an event model like "domready" rather than onload, as that encompasses images and external scripts being available to the DOM.

Having said that, I believe that pure HTML can give you more advantage rather than using  Javascript here.

You may want to use another attribute (other than class) that has more "semantic meaning":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/interact/forms.html#h-17.11

</div>

</div>
