---
title: "Thinking Sphinx PDF at Peepcode"
redirect_from: "/posts/thinking_sphinx_pdf_at_peepcode"
categories:
  - pdf
  - peepcode
  - sphinx
  - ruby
  - rails
---
A quick note to let anyone using (or interested in using) "Sphinx":http://sphinxsearch.com/ and/or "Thinking Sphinx":http://ts.freelancing-gods.com/ that "my Peepcode PDF":http://peepcode.com/products/thinking-sphinx-pdf has just been published, and contains a wealth of information on how to mix Sphinx with ActiveRecord (via Rails or Merb).

It's been great working with "Geoffrey Grosenbach":http://topfunky.com/ to get this written up, and I'm pretty stoked to see the final results - hopefully others will enjoy it as well.

Also, a massive thank you to all the contributors to Thinking Sphinx - it wouldn't be quite so cool if it wasn't for all the patches (facilitated by "GitHub's forking":http://github.com/freelancing-god/thinking-sphinx/network/members).

----

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">"Jeff":http://semanticart.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
I'm excited about thinking sphinx, but I've never been able to get past an issue where a table whose id is a varchar refuses to be indexed... it throws "WARNING: duplicate document ids found" and refuses to index properly.  I tried coding around the sql_query * 1 + 0 AS `id` bit on a hunch, but that doesn't seem to solve it.  

Any advice?  I'm otherwise ready to shell out the cash for this pdf.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"jeff":http://semanticart.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
I should note that the varchar ids are unique in the database.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Jeff":http://semanticart.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
So it appears that this is a limitation of sphinx itself.  Sorry for the troubles.  Even sorrier that I can't use sphinx on this project.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 29 Oct, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hi Jeff

Yup, unfortunately Sphinx requires integer IDs. Sorry it's not a solution that'll work for you.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">tashfeen  left a comment on 20 Dec, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
i get the following error when trying to start sphinx and the file noted there is not being generated. permission on the directory is for all. 

(in C:/ror/rails_apps/drug)
searchd --config C:/ror/rails_apps/drug/config/development.sphinx.conf
Failed to start searchd daemon. Check C:/ror/rails_apps/drug/log/searchd.log.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 21 Dec, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Not quite sure what could be stopping development.sphinx.conf from generating... probably best to continue this discussion on the "google group":http://groups.google.com/group/thinking-sphinx
</div>

<div class="comment-author">tashfeen left a comment on 22 Dec, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
ok, treid there too but no help yet. let me know if you come up with anything. i am developing on windows if that may help...
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Jeff":http://semanticart.com left a comment on  6 Mar, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Not trying to blog spam here, but for those who get here via google:  Don't be discouraged by the integer primary key issue, it can be overcome.  See http://blog.semanticart.com/comparing_thinking_sphinx_and_acts_as_ferret_for_full-text_indexing_in_rails
</div>

</div>
