---
title: "The (Beautiful) Ballad of Rodger and Grace"
redirect_from: "/posts/the_beautiful_ballad_of_rodger_and_grace/"
categories:
  - music
  - uk
  - kitson
  - theatre
  - art
  - comedy
  - melbourne
---
The "Comedy Festival":http://www.comedyfestival.com.au is running again here in Melbourne - which is one of my favourite times of the year. Just saw my first show this afternoon - *Daniel Kitson* and *Gavin Osborn*'s _The Ballad of Rodger & Grace_. In short, it was amazing, funny, heartwarming and beautiful.

Kitson is a fantastic wordsmith, sometimes using words that don't get used enough, and using otherwise common words in clever and different ways. Osborn provided a touching and emotive soundtrack to the story Kitson wove, filling in a different perspective.

I know I've "raved about Kitson before":http://freelancing-gods.com/posts/daniel_kitson,_comedy_god - and I've got a different show of his for this festival that I'm yet to see, so I likely will rave again soon - but do yourself a favour and go catch one of his shows (this one is only running for a few more days, but his solo festival show runs until mid April). He is one of the finest comedic talents out there - and a masterful storyteller to boot. Osborn's music just adds to the brilliance.

----

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">"ae":http://www.aestheticallyloyal.com left a comment on 29 Mar, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
This was the guy.
http://www.comedyfestival.com.au/season/2008/show/28/
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 29 Mar, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
Sounds pretty good - will have to check him out.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Steve":http://www.thesquigglyline.com/blog left a comment on 31 Mar, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment">
I have personally voyaged to the isle Kitson with Captain Pat on two occasions now. On the weight of those two performances alone, I am now a life-long member of his 'established audience.'

Also, I splashed out and tried Gavin Osbourn's album after the Ballad of Roger and Grace. It is also a winner, especially track 5...Attacking Midfielder. A soulfull tune exposing the pain Osborn felt when his star player asked for a transfer whilst playing Football Manager - for those who have played the game...nuff said.
</div>

</div>
