---
title: "Exit Right"
redirect_from: "/posts/exit_right/"
categories:
  - politics
  - australia
  - books
---
(A blog post where Pat cheats and just quotes heavily from the book.)

Another book I managed to get through on my break in New Zealand was the
latest [Quarterly
Essay](http://www.quarterlyessay.com/qe/currentissue/), Judith Brett’s
Exit Right: The Unravelling of John Howard. Anyone who knows me well
knows that I was extremely happy with Howard’s loss at the end of last
year, so reading about what lead to the downfall wasn’t exactly
depressing (unlike the excellent [Dark
Victory](http://books.google.com/boks?id=SHdBQZQyEnIC&dq=dark+victory&source=gbs_summary_s&cad=0),
which covers events around the 2001 election).

As well as pointing out the dangers of groupthink and following the
party line (paralleling nicely with [Cass Sunstein’s
Infotopia](http://freelancing-gods.com/posts/infotopia_a_vague_review)),
Brett had two incisive descriptions which I hadn’t heard clearly before.

The first was about how WorkChoices had such a strong impact for so many
voters.

<blockquote>
<p>
With its new industrial-relations regime the government was trying to
change culture, just as Howard had accused the Keating government of
doing. And the culture was resisting. The deep problem for the
government was that unlike many other areas of policy, when it comes to
what happens at work, people have first-hand experience, both their own
and that of friends and family. And opinions based on experience are
much more firmly held than those based on media reports or government
advertising campaigns.</p><p>In the long interviews which Antony Moran
and I used for our book *Ordinary People’s Politics*, there was a
discernible difference between the way people talked about opinions
based on experience and their other political views. On issues of
foreign policy, such as the decision to support the US invasion of Iraq,
most Australians have little choice but to trust the government. And if
the government gets it wrong, it has no immediate impact on their daily
lives. It is the Iraqis who are bearing that cost. Even with the
children-overboard affair, the fact that the government lied had no
immediate impact on Australian voters’ everyday lives.</p><p>But
changing the power relations in the workplace is a very different
matter. In trying to sell the changes to an already-sceptical
electorate, the government damaged its more general credibility. If they
are giving us spin on things we know first-hand, why should we believe
them on anything else? WorkChoices may well be the main reason people
seemed to stop listening to the government some time i the first half of
2007.</p></blockquote>

The second was in regards to Budget promises and the lack of expenditure
on services.

<blockquote>
<p>
The core problem of Australian federalism is vertical fiscal imbalance.
What this means is that the federal government raises most of the
revenue but the states have the most need of it, with responsibility for
services including education, roads, hospitals and police, where there
is never enough money. Australia’s federal system involves not just a
mismatch of money, but a mismatch of accountability, which is why it is
so difficult to fix.</p><p>There is a structural fracture between the
level of government (federal) which bears the odium of raising taxes,
and the level of government (state) which claims the credit for spending
the money. There is also endless scope for blame-shifting. Why would a
Commonwealth government give more money to the states for public
hospitals, for example, or for TAFE colleges, particularly when the
states are in the hands of the opposition party and when it can’t
control the outcomes? Why wouldn’t it give voters tax cuts for which it
will get the credit?</p><p>Voters keep saying that instead of tax cuts
from the surplus they would prefer the money to be spent on health,
education, infrastructure, the environment. But most of this is done by
the states, and so doesn’t easily provide the Commonwealth with the type
of big-bang policy announcements that tax cuts do. And from the
perspective of the Coalition, it’s just giving free kicks to the Labor
state premiers and helping them stay in power.</p></blockquote>

Neither point is *ground-breaking*, but I found them clear perspectives
that I hadn’t encountered before.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">
John Dunlop left a comment on 26 Mar, 2008:</div>

<div class="comment" markdown="1">
Hi Pat,

I particularly liked the analysis of the reaction against the liberals
workplace policy!

regards,

John

</div>
</div>

