---
title: "Rails Camps - Coming to a Country Near You"
redirect_from: "/posts/rails_camps_coming_to_a_country_near_you/"
categories:
  - usa
  - unconference
  - barcamp
  - uk
  - railscamp
  - maine
  - margate
  - ruby
  - rails
  - melbourne
  - australia
  - community
---
This weekend, there’s going to be a Rails Camp. In October, there’s
going to be a Rails Camp. Then in November, there’s going to be a Rails
Camp. That in itself is pretty freaking cool. What’s even cooler is that
they’re in Maine, England and Australia respectively.

### Definition

If you’re not quite sure what Rails Camps are - they’re unconference
style events, held away from cities, generally without internet, on a
weekend from Friday to Monday. The venues are usually scout halls or
similar, so the name is slightly inaccurate - most people don’t bring
tents, but sleep in dorm rooms instead.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/johotravels/2603650680/" title="Getting Down to Business by johotravels, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3267/2603650680_c611d3211b.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="Getting Down to Business" /></a>

Also, they are events for Rubyists of all level of experience - and not
just focused on Rails either. Anything related to Ruby and development
in general is a welcome topic for discussion.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/freelancing_god/2789346484/" title="Communal Hacking by freelancing god, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3264/2789346484_a5fa64bf5e.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="Communal Hacking" /></a>

The weekends are made up of plenty of hacking, socialising, talks, and
partying. Alcohol and guitar hero usually feature. A ton of fun ensues.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/muermann/583126424/" title="Making Pizzas by muermann, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1229/583126424_f5ddaa479e.jpg" width="333" height="500" alt="Making Pizzas" /></a>

### Rails Camp New England

A quick rundown in chronological order: first up, from the 17th to 20th
of July, is [Rails Camp New
England](http://railscamps.com/#ne_july_2009). This will (as far as I
know) be the first Rails Camp in North America. We’ll be up in the
middle of Maine, at [the MountainView
House](http://www.themainehouses.com/mountain_house/mountain_house.php)
(a bit different from most Rails Camp venues) in Bryant Pond.

Unfortunately, if you want to come to this camp, we’re all sold out. Let
me know anyway, just in case someone drops out (although it is late
notice).

### Rails Camp UK 2

Building on the success of last year’s first UK Rails Camp, [a second
one](http://railscamps.com/#uk_october_2009) has been put together by
[Tom Crinson](http://twitter.com/mrjaba) out in Margate, Kent.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/freelancing_god/2788505977/" title="Balancing by freelancing god, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3216/2788505977_28ac44d72a.jpg" width="375" height="500" alt="Balancing" /></a>

If you’re anywhere in the UK, or even Europe, you really should be
keeping the weekend of the 16th to 19th of October free. In fact, [go
book your spot right
now](http://railscampuk2.eventwax.com/rails-camp-uk-2).

### Rails Camp Australia 6

Last on this list is the original Rails Camp, that started back in June
2007, run by the inimitable [Ben Askins](http://benaskins.github.com/).
We’re returning to Melbourne (the host of the second camp, in November
2007), but [this time](http://railscamps.com/#au_november_2009) we’re
down by the beach in Somers.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/snapperwolf/571808039/" title="John showing us how it's done by snapperwolf*, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1078/571808039_93caaeb95e.jpg" width="375" height="500" alt="John showing us how it's done" /></a>

November 20th to 23rd are the dates for this, and going by the names of
confirmed attendees, alongside what looks to be an fantastic venue, it’s
going to rock just as much as the last five (and quite possibly even
more). [Feel like booking your
place](http://rails-camp.eventwax.com/rails-camp-6/register?)

For all of these events, you should beg, borrow or steal to get your
hands on a ticket. The energy, intelligence and passion of past camps
has been amazing (which is why I do my best to spread the word), and
they are a breath of fresh air compared to the staid and structured
setup of RailsConf and most other technical conferences.

Thanks to [John Barton](http://whoisjohnbarton.com/), Max Muermann, and
[Jason Crane](https://twitter.com/snapperwolf) for the photos above.
