---
title: "Funding Thinking Sphinx"
redirect_from: "/posts/funding_thinking_sphinx/"
categories:
  - search
  - micropatronage
  - sphinx
  - thinking sphinx
  - ruby
  - rails
---
*Update*: I've now hit my target. If you want to donate more, I won't turn you away, but perhaps you should send those funds to other worthy open source projects, or a local charity. A massive thank you to all who have pitched in to the pledgie, your generosity and support is amazing.

Over the past two years, "Thinking Sphinx":http://freelancing-god.github.com/ts/en/ has grown massively - in lines of code, in the numbers of users, in complexity, in time required to support it. I'm regularly amazed and touched "by the":http://twitter.com/dacort/status/1102941784 "recommendations":http://twitter.com/filiptepper/status/4807695538 "I see":http://twitter.com/sjmadsen/status/4317121116 "on Twitter":http://twitter.com/thibaut_barrere/status/1093646765, and the feedback I get in conversations. The fact that there's been almost one hundred contributors is staggering.

It's not all fun and games, though... there's still plenty of features that can be added, and bugs to be fixed, and documentation to write. So, what I'd really like to do is spend November working close to full-time on just Thinking Sphinx. I have "a long task list":http://gist.github.com/175687. All I need is a bit of financial help to cover living expenses.

I have "an existing pledgie":http://pledgie.com/campaigns/1752 tied to the GitHub project, currently sitting on $600. If I can get another $2000, then I won't have to worry at all about how I'm going to pay bills or rent for November. Even $1400 will make it viable for me, albeit maybe with some help from my savings.

If you or your workplace can make a donation, that would be very much appreciated. I'm happy to provide weekly updates on where things are at if people request it - but of course, watching the GitHub projects for "Thinking Sphinx":http://github.com/freelancing-god/thinking-sphinx itself and "the documentation site":http://github.com/freelancing-god/freelancing-god.github.com/ is the most reliable way to keep an eye on my progress.

I'm hoping to get Thinking Sphinx to a point where the documentation is by far the best place for support, and it's only the really tricky problems (and bug reports) that end up in my inbox.

I want it to be a model Ruby library that doesn't get in your way, is as fast as possible, and plays nicely with other libraries.

I want the testing suite to be rock-solid. I've been much better at writing tests first over the last six months, and using Cucumber has made the test suite so much more reliable, but there's still some way to go.

This is not a rewrite - it's polishing.

I've been toying with this idea for a while, and it's time to have a stab at it. Hopefully you can "provide some assistance":http://pledgie.com/campaigns/1752 to do this.

----

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">"Mark Turner":http://amerine.net left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Sent some much deserved cash your way. I'm sure you'll hit the goal. Enjoy the month of thinking-sphinx work ;-)
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Mark: thanks! yeah, it's looking like I'll definitely hit the target. Looking forward to next month :)
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Kyle Daigle":http://Geezeo left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hey, is the pledgie link good?  It returns all kinds of funky stuff to me.  I tried going through pledgie alone and it didn't work either.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Hi Kyle, it's not working for me either... seems to have cropped up in the last hour or so. I've pinged the pledgie guys via Twitter about it, hopefully it'll get fixed soon.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Bill DeVaul":http://www.dinnewarematchers.com/ left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
I am ready to pledge but the link leads to a raw text page.  I'll check back in a few hours.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Kyle, Bill: It's back up now...
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"pat":http://freelancing-gods.com left a comment on 28 Oct, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
Although, as now noted at the top of the post, I've hit my target. Which is pretty amazing.
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Alexey":http://rails-dev.ru left a comment on 18 Nov, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
in our project we use plug-in thinking_sphinx

it builds indexes for sphinx using rules, which are described in method in model

  define_index do
    indexes name
    indexes material
    indexes recipe_text
    indexes recipe_info
.............

and we have one problem. there are several projects on one server. and these projects have the same model names. and so they will have the same index names in sphinx config file

how can we set unique name of index for each model?
</div>

<div class="comment-author">"Ross Hill":http://www.rosshill.com.au left a comment on 24 Dec, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment">
So it's December - how did you go for the month?
</div>

</div>
