---
title: "Getting around in Cambodia"
redirect_from: "/posts/getting_around_in_cambodia/"
categories:
  - transport
  - travel
  - khmer
  - tuktuk
  - moto
  - taxi
  - bus
  - cambodia
  - guide
---
\*This is the third of [my guides to
Cambodia](http://freelancing-gods.com/posts/pats_guide_to_cambodia.*)

The focus for this post is how you can get yourself from one side of the
country to the other.

### Between Cities

Unless you have your own private tourist guide, you really only have two
options to get between cities - buses and taxis.

#### By Bus

Buses are the cheap-but-slow option - you could be looking at 6 or more
hours between Battambang and Phnom Penh, and a ticket is going to set
you back maybe $7 USD. Phnom Penh to Siem Reap is a slightly longer
journey, and Siem Reap to Battambang is shorter (around 4 or 5 hours).

Sometimes buses break down, and sometimes they’ll make a few more toilet
break stops than really necessary. They are easy though - just buy a
ticket, and hop on the right bus. Don’t expect air conditioning or a
quiet trip - it’s likely you’ll have to put up with loud Khmer pop for
the entire trip.

#### By Taxi

Taxis, on the other hand, can require a bit more patience to sort out.
It’s not a formalised system like in developed countries - if someone
with a car wants to be a taxi driver, then they just hang around the
vague taxi point in a city, and try to lure passengers into their car.
There’s plenty of competitiveness between drivers, so you could try and
bargain for a seat. Don’t expect all drivers to speak English though.

Taxi drivers will try to fill up the car with as many passengers as
possible. I’ve been in cars with four Khmer adults in the back seat of
the Camry (almost all taxis are Camrys), two in each of the front seats
(yes, the driver shares his seat), and in one case, one girl in the boot
(kept open, thankfully).

If you’d like to have a little privacy, you pay more. For Battambang to
Phnom Penh, $20 is a common rate for a Westerner to have the passenger
seat to themselves. $10 will probably get you a seat in the back with
two or three others. Westerners are generally given more space, because
they have the money to pay for it.

You can also hire out a whole car if you’ve got plenty of cash or a
group of people - expect to pay around $50. For the other major routes,
prices can be modified depending on the distance (I’d guess around
$60-70 for Phnom Penh to Siem Reap).

While finding drivers is pretty easy (your hotel or hostel may even help
you source a driver), there is a good chance you could be waiting around
for the rest of the taxi to fill up. Khmers are early risers, so as the
day wears on, there’s less potential travellers. In some cases, I’ve
waited over an hour before leaving. Of course, if you offer more money,
then the driver will be happier to make the journey with less
passengers.

So, for all this hard work, what are the advantages? Air-conditioning
(indeed, you might actually be too *cold*) is the big one. The journey
is much faster, too (I once did the Battambang to Phnom Penh trip in
under four hours, but four to five hours is the usual length of time).
You should still expect to be blasted with Khmer music (although some
drivers will graciously accommodate and turn the radio down or off).

Either way, the roads aren’t fancy - and sometimes not even sealed - so
don’t hope for a super-smooth ride.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/freelancing_god/3271063080/" title="Transporter by freelancing god, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3396/3271063080_c4c3c6d3c6.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="Transporter" /></a>

#### The Boat

The one other major transport option is only for travelling between
Battambang and Siem Reap, and even then, only during the wet season: the
boat. There’s two different boats (I’m not sure if they’re run by
separate companies), and one is apparently comfortable.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/freelancing_god/3270279881/" title="The Boat to Siem Reap by freelancing god, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3339/3270279881_c3652d82b4.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="The Boat to Siem Reap" /></a>

I say apparently, because I went on the other boat, which is a glorified
gondola, holding about 20 people sitting on benches facing each other,
with their backs to the water. The sides of this boat are low enough
that you will get water flowing over the edge every now and then -
nothing dangerous, but your bags may get a little wet.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/freelancing_god/3270282371/" title="The Boat to Siem Reap by freelancing god, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3504/3270282371_3ee0377328.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="The Boat to Siem Reap" /></a>

Given my description thus far, it sounds like a horrible trip - and
while it wasn’t super comfortable, and did take seven hours, you do get
some great views of the Cambodian countryside. The boat skirts the
western edge of the massive Tonl&eacute; Sap lake, and also motors
through some floating villages. It’s certainly a unique experience, and
I’m glad I’ve done it once.

### In Cities

Unlike most cities, taxis (in their car form) aren’t used much at all in
Cambodia for travelling within a city (although there is some normal
taxis in Phnom Penh). What **is** used is a bit more old-school -
tuk-tuks and motos. Motos are scaled down motorbikes - not quite as
powerful, and not quite as large. Very similar to motorized scooters, if
a little bit more motorbike-like. Tuktuks are motos with a little
carriage on the back, which can fit four Westerners reasonably
comfortably.

#### Motos

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/yob/3361432116/" title="IMG_0732 by yob, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3623/3361432116_b1c5bb0ffc.jpg" width="375" height="500" alt="IMG_0732" /></a>

If you need to get somewhere by yourself, I’d recommend jumping on the
back of a moto - there’s usually plenty of moto-dops (moto-taxis) around
tourist areas and major intersections. It can be a little scary at
first, but the drivers know what they’re doing, and it’s much faster
than a tuk-tuk. The more you travel this way, the more comfortable it
gets.

Prices vary between cities - I could generally get from one end of
Battambang to the other for fifty cents (two thousand riel). For the
same *distance*, a dollar is probably the least you’ll get away with in
Phnom Penh (and it’s also a much larger city). Sometimes the driver will
request a price, sometimes you just offer what you think it is worth -
and bargaining is fine, although you may not get far due to the language
barrier.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/yob/3360708551/" title="Pat and Melina on a Moto"><img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3664/3360708551_91ddaa277a.jpg" width="500" height="375" alt="IMG_0777" /></a>

Much like the ride itself, estimating what to pay for a trip becomes
comfortable over time.

#### Tuk-tuks

If there’s a group of you - and particularly if you have luggage - then
a tuk-tuk is the better option. You’ve got a bit more space, and it’s
definitely safer than a moto - but the caveat is that it’s more
expensive, and it’s slower. I didn’t travel by tuk-tuk too much, so I’m
not the best source for prices, but I’d expect to pay a dollar or two to
get across Battambang, maybe a little more if there was a group of us.

Both moto and tuk-tuk drivers are often happy to wait for you for the
return journey - if that’s what you want, don’t feel obliged to pay
until you’re finished with their services. You should pay them a bit
extra for waiting, though.

A simple example: If I was visiting the Russian Markets in Phnom Penh,
and then heading back to my hotel, I’d probably pay three or four
dollars all up for a moto-dop. For a similar visit to the markets in
Battambang, two dollars should suffice. Of course, prices may have gone
up since my last visit, and I can speak a little Khmer, so I’m more
comfortable with bargaining. Don’t be surprised if you’re asked for
double those amounts, or more.

### Directions

When you’re stuck with the language barrier, it can be a bit hard to
describe where you want to go (particularly in a city you’ve never been
to before). Regular moto-dops and tuk-tuk drivers will know all the
common tourist places, so generally you’re going to be fine.

If the driver doesn’t know where to go - and sometimes they pretend they
do know - they’ll usually ask other Khmer for help. However, often the
drivers hanging around tourist areas are experienced enough
(particularly in Phnom Penh and Siem Reap) that you won’t have problems.

### Touts

You definitely won’t struggle to find moto-dops or tuk-tuks - there’s
always a few outside each hotel, and they’re quick to offer their
services (read: hassle you incessantly). Sometimes, that’s fine, because
you do need transport. Other times, it’s easier to just say ‘no’ (A’tay)
or ‘I don’t need’ (A’trega).

You’ll also find some drivers ask if you want to visit tourist places,
and offer to take you there (and if you’re busy, give you their number
or ask when you’re free the following day). This can be handy - it’s
nice to have a familiar driver taking you around - but if you don’t want
to commit to any plans, make that clear, don’t just say yes to avoid
confrontation.

### Hiring Bikes

If you’d like to get around without a driver, it’s not hard to find
places that hire out motos and bicycles (and perhaps dirt bikes for the
out-of-town trips). Cambodia is quite flat for the most part, so it’s
not hard to peddle your way through cities, but Phnom Penh’s traffic
(much more so than Battambang or Siem Reap) heightens the challenge.
You’ll also need to worry about locking the bikes up, so it may not be
worth the hassle.

### Border Crossing

Finally, if you’re planning on crossing the border overland from
Bangkok, via Aranyaprathet (on the Thai side of the border) and Poipet
(the Cambodian equivalent), it’s a bit of an adventure. I’ve done it a
couple of times - the easiest way is by taking a bus that goes all the
way to Siem Reap or Battambang (well, it’s actually two buses, since
they don’t cross the border, but guides will look after you somewhat).

An alternative is to take a non-tourist-focused bus from Bangkok to the
border, and then find a taxi once you cross over to Cambodia. This is
more challenging - there’s some scam buses and taxis that charge a lot
more in Poipet, so I’d recommend the bus.

If you’re going in the other direction though, taking a taxi to Poipet
is easy enough, and then you can get a tuk-tuk to the bus stop in
Aranyaprathet. No matter which direction you’re going in, [Tales of
Asia’s
guide](http://www.talesofasia.com/cambodia-overland-bkksr-self.htm) is
essential reading.

That’s it for my generic Cambodian posts - the last two of this series
will focus on dining and activities in the town of Battambang (as that’s
where I spent the vast majority of my time).

Thanks to <a href="http://yob.id.au">James Healy</a> for the moto photos
above.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">
<a href="http://www.thesquigglyline.com/blog">Steve Hopkins</a> left a
comment on 29 Jul, 2009:</div>

<div class="comment" markdown="1">
This is bloody fantastic.

Actually, I have nothing more to say than that.

Well written dude, perfect. Best one yet. As someone who was a fair bit
apprehensive about venturing to Cambodge before I got there, I can
safely say that this post will allay even the largest fears.

Awesome.

</div>
</div>

