---
title: "Dining in Battambang"
redirect_from: "/posts/dining_in_battambang/"
categories:
  - food
  - travel
  - khmer
  - cambodia
  - battambang
  - guide
---
\*This is the fourth of [my guides to
Cambodia](http://freelancing-gods.com/posts/pats_guide_to_cambodia.*)

I’ve let this series of posts lag so much that I’ve actually been back
to Cambodia for a couple of weeks in the meantime. That’s refreshed my
memory, so maybe it’s not such a bad thing.

Now, while Phnom Penh and Siem Reap are the major tourist centres of
Cambodia, I’ve spent most of my time in
[Battambang](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Battambang,+Cambodia&sll=13.092625,103.205287&sspn=0.016051,0.016501&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=Battambang,+Bat+Dambang,+Cambodia&z=13),
so it’s really the only place I can provide a decent number of
recommendations for. Let’s get stuck into it!

### Restaurants in General

A few points to bear in mind:

-   Khmer restaurants aren’t known for their speed, so it doesn’t hurt
    to bring a book.
-   Most places that cater for foreigners have both Western and
    Khmer dishes.
-   Unless menus mention both lime and lemon, assume that when it says
    lemon, you’ll actually get lime.

### West of the River

Battambang has a few key streets - running north to south are roads One,
Two and Three. One is along the river, and Three is the largest of the
three.

<img src="https://img.skitch.com/20100222-rr5pjtkkdgs5422ca5f9qrqpg8.jpg" alt="Battambang, Cambodia" />

As you can see from the map, there’s also streets between these - they
are usually referred to by expats as One-and-a-half, and Two-and-a-half,
but I’ve no idea if the locals actually have names for them.

#### Fresh Eats

The food here isn’t particularly complex - but it’s tasty, and their
shakes have no milk (a rarity), so they’re particularly refreshing.
Perfect for breakfast or lunch. As an added bonus, has wifi.

And if you’ve visited Fresh Eats before, it’s worth noting that they
have moved in the last twelve months from the far side of Road Three to
Road Two-and-a-half, just south of Psah Nath (the main market).

#### Khmer Delight

A relative newcomer, Khmer Delight has only appeared in the last year.
Good food, friendly staff, and intermittent wifi. It’s worth a visit for
meals at any time of day.

You can find it on the road running east-west a block south of Psah
Nath, between Roads Two and Two-and-a-half.

#### Smoking Pot

A stalwart of the Lonely Planet, Smoking Pot is best known for the
cooking classes (which I’ll cover in a later post), but also has a good
variety of dishes. They also serve a banana and lime milkshake, which
became my regular drink (I know it sounds a little odd, but the
combination works).

It is located on the corner of Street One-and-a-half, two blocks south
of Psah Nath.

#### Snow White

This place always draws plenty of tourists, and so I rarely went,
preferring to support businesses which were a bit quieter. The menu is
long, so you don’t lack for choices, and the food ranges from okay to
decent.

You can find Snow White on the corner of Street Two, two blocks south of
Psah Nath (a very short walk from Smoking Pot).

#### Balcony Bar

An evening-only option, the Balcony Bar is at the higher end of the
scale in terms of prices - perhaps not quite so good value compared to
other places. That said, the food’s pretty good (though the menu is
almost all Western), and it’s a very chilled location, away from the
town centre.

You won’t want to walk here, especially late at night, but all Tuk-tuk
drivers (and many moto drivers) will know it - it’s a far distance along
Road One, south of central Battambang.

#### Riverside Stalls

Every night, a couple of dozen stalls set up along the river (south of
the bridge that’s at the bottom of the map). You could try your luck
here for a noodle soup, but it’s really aimed at the locals: you won’t
find any western options, and English won’t get you very far at all.

It’s also probably a bit rough on digestive systems that haven’t spent a
few weeks in Cambodia. All in all, you have been warned.

### East of the River

While the focus of Battambang is on the west side of the river, there’s
still some options out east. You’ll mainly find these along one road,
where the temple is by the river, leading to the big statue roundabout
on Highway 5.

<img src="https://img.skitch.com/20100222-e1w88mi3bechi5ktcrkt97ju9c.jpg" alt="Cambodia - Google Maps"/>

#### Bamboo Train Cafe

Formerly known as Apsara Garden, the Bamboo Train Cafe has tweaked its
menu somewhat, and offers meals at all times of day. The breakfasts are
very good (especially if you’re dying for Western-style toast), meals
are generally delicious, and the staff are friendly. There’s also a pool
table in very good condition - a rarity.

You can find it just east of Spring Park Hotel.

#### Green House

A small place beside the Golden Palace Hotel (east of Spring Park Hotel
on the north side of the main road), this restaurant has some Western
dishes, but the local fare is better. Simple and affordable (moreso than
the usually cheap Cambodian standards), but nothing sparkling.

#### Cold Night

Part of the Golden Palace Hotel (east of Spring Park Hotel on the north
side of the main road), you may want to try Cold Night if you’re nearby.
Some dishes are quite good (my favourite is the Chicken Curry with
Rice), but the staff are rarely friendly.

#### La Villa

You don’t get much classier than this in Cambodia, let alone Battambang.
La Villa is a boutique hotel in (as the name suggests) an old French
villa. The food here ranges from decent to very good. If you’re going to
go a steak, get the imported New Zealand beef, not the local stuff -
it’ll be more tender. The creme caramel is great.

This is not where you come to get a taste of Cambodian culture - but it
is a nice break from the culture shock. It’s along the river, north of
the main road on the map, but Tuk-tuk drivers will know where to go.
