---
title: "Rewriting Thinking Sphinx: Introducing Realtime Indices"
redirect_from: "/posts/rewriting_thinking_sphinx_introducing_realtime_indices/"
categories:
  - sphinx
  - realtime
  - thinking sphinx
  - ruby
  - rails
---
The one other feature in the rewrite of Thinking Sphinx that I wanted to
highlight should most certainly be considered *in beta*, but it’s
gradually getting to the point where it can be used reliably: real-time
indices.

Real-time indices are built into Sphinx, and are indices that can be
dynamically updated on the fly - and are not backed by a database
sources. They do have a defined structure with fields and attributes (so
they’re not a NoSQL key/value store), but they remove the need for delta
indices, because each record in a real-time index can be updated
directly. You also get the benefit, within Thinking Sphinx, to refer to
Ruby methods instead of tables and columns.

The recent 3.0.4 release of Thinking Sphinx provides support for this,
but the workflow’s a little different from the SQL-backed indices:

Define your indices
-------------------

Presuming a Product model defined just so:

    class Product < ActiveRecord::Base
      has_many :categorisations
      has_many :categories, :through => :categorisations
    end

You can put together an index like this:

    ThinkingSphinx::Index.define :product, :with => :real_time do
      indexes name

      has category_ids, :type => :integer, :multi => true
    end

You can see here that it’s very similar to a SQL-backed index, but we’re
referring to Ruby methods (such as `category_ids`, perhaps
auto-generated by associations), and we’re specifying the attribute type
explicitly - as we can’t be sure what a method returns.

Add Callbacks
-------------

Every time a record is updated in your database, you want those changes
to be reflected in Sphinx as well. Sometimes you may want associated
models to prompt a change - hence, these callbacks aren’t added
automatically.

In our example above, we’d want `after_save` callbacks in our Product
model (of course) and also our Categorisation model - as that will
impact a product’s `category_ids` value.

    # within product.rb
    after_save ThinkingSphinx::RealTime.callback_for(:product)

    # within categorisation.rb
    after_save ThinkingSphinx::RealTime.callback_for(:product, [:product])

The first argument is the reference to the indices involved - matching
the first argument when you define your index. The second argument in
the Categorisation example is the method chain required to get to the
objects involved in the index.

Generate the configuration
--------------------------

    rake ts:configure

We’ve no need for the old `ts:index` task as that’s preloading index
data via the database.

Start Sphinx
------------

    rake ts:start

All of our interactions with Sphinx are through the daemon - and so,
Sphinx must be running before we can add records into the indices.

Populate the initial data
-------------------------

    rake ts:generate

This will go through each index, load each record for the appropriate
model and insert (or update, if it exists) the data for that into the
real-time indices. If you’ve got a tonne of records or complex index
definitions, then this could take a while.

Everything at once
------------------

    rake ts:regenerate

The regenerate task will stop Sphinx (if it’s running), clear out all
Sphinx index files, generate the configuration file again, start Sphinx,
and *then* repopulate all the data.

Essentially, this is the rake task you want to call when you’ve changed
the structure of your Sphinx indices.

Handle with care
----------------

Once you have everything in place, then searching will work, and as your
models are updated, your indices will be too. In theory, it should be
pretty smooth sailing indeed!

Of course, there could be glitches, and so if you spot inconsistencies
between your database and Sphinx, consider where you may be making
changes to your database without firing the after\_save callback. You
can run the `ts:generate` task at any point to update your Sphinx
dataset.

I don’t yet have Flying Sphinx providing full support for real-time
indices - it should work fine, but there’s not yet any automated backup
(whereas SQL-backed indices are backed up every time you process the
index files). This means if a server fails it’d be up to you to restore
your index files. It’s on my list of things to do!

What’s next?
------------

I’m keen to provide hooks to allow the callbacks to fire off background
jobs instead of having that Sphinx update part of the main process -
though it’s certainly not as bad as the default delta approach (you’re
not shelling out to another process, and you’re only updating a single
record).

I’m starting to play with this in my own apps, and am keen to see it
used in production. It is a different way of using Sphinx, but it’s
certainly one worth considering. If you give it a spin, let me know how
you go!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div class="comments">
<div class="comment-author">
<a href="http://checkvist.com">Kirill Maximov</a> left a comment on 5
Aug, 2013:</div>

<div class="comment" markdown="1">
Hello,

This weekend I tried migrating to TS 3.0 with RT indexes - and I’ve
faced the problem with initial data population. As far as I understand,
there is no way to add “includes” and “joins” when generating initial
data which gives N+1 problem and serious performance issues.  
 Could it be possible to add some syntax which would allow to specify
includes for data (re)generation?

Thanks,

</div>
<div class="comment-author">
JeremyLi left a comment on 20 Mar, 2014:</div>

<div class="comment" markdown="1">
I create two index(:title, :content) in a model Article, and if i want
to search data only in the :title index, how to do that?

</div>
<div class="comment-author">
Mikhail left a comment on 19 Jun, 2014:</div>

<div class="comment" markdown="1">
Hi.

Is there any way to set callback for deleting model from index?

</div>
</div>

