---
title: "Melbourne Ruby Retrospective for 2013"
redirect_from: "/posts/melbourne_ruby_retrospective_for_2013/"
categories:
  - ruby
  - rails
  - melbourne
  - australia
  - community
---
The Melbourne Ruby community has grown and evolved a fair bit in this
past year, and I’m extremely proud of what it has become.

Mind you, I’ve always thought it was pretty special. I first started to
attend the meets back when Rails was young and the community in
Australia was pretty new, towards the end of 2005. The meets themselves
started in [January of that
year](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/melbourne-ruby/nfbOX1fhgDw/Owpu-eaofXoJ)
- almost nine years ago! - and have continued regularly since, in many
shapes, sizes and venues, under the guiding hands of many wise Rubyists.

Given I’ve been around so long, it’s a little surprising I’d not had a
turn convening the meetings on a regular basis (though I’d certainly
helped out when other organisers couldn’t be present). After the
excellent, recent guidance of [Dave
Goodlad](https://twitter.com/dgoodlad) and [Justin
French](https://twitter.com/justinfrench), [Mario
Visic](https://twitter.com/mariovisic) and [Ivan
Vanderbyl](IvanVanderbyl) stepped up - and then Ivan made plans to move
to the USA. I was recently inspired by discussions around growing and
improving the community at the latest New Zealand [Rails
Camp](http://railscamps.com), and so I offered to take Ivan’s place. (As
it turns out, Ivan’s yet to switch sides of the Pacific Ocean. Soon,
though!)

And so, since February, Mario and I have added our own touches to the
regular events. Borrowing from both Sydney and Christchurch, we’ve added
monthly hack nights - evenings where there’s no presentations, but
people of all different experience levels bring along their laptops and
get some coding done. If anyone gets stuck, there’s plenty of friendly
and experienced developers around to help.

More recently, [reInteractive](http://www.reinteractive.net) have helped
to bring
[InstallFests](http://www.reinteractive.net/community/installfest) from
Sydney to Melbourne. They are events to help beginners interested in
Ruby and Rails get the tools they need installed on their machines and
then go through the process of setting up a basic blog, with mentors on
hand to help deal with any teething problems.

For the bulk of Melbourne Ruby community’s life, the meets have been
announced through Google groups - first the [Melbourne Ruby User
Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/melbourne-ruby), then in
the broader [Ruby or Rails
Oceania](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/rails-oceania) group. It’d
become a little more clear over the past couple of years that this
wasn’t obvious to outsiders who were curious about Ruby - which prompted
the detailing of meeting schedules on [ruby.org.au](http://ruby.org.au)
- but there was still room for improvement. reInteractive’s assistance
with the InstallFest events was linked to their support with setting up
[a group on
Meetup.com](http://www.meetup.com/Ruby-On-Rails-Oceania-Melbourne/) -
and almost overnight we’ve had a significant increase in newcomers.

Now, many of us Rubyists are quite opinionated, and I know some find
Meetup inelegant and, well, noisy. I certainly don’t think it’s as good
as it could be - but it’s the major player in the space, and it’s the
site upon which many people go searching for communities like ours. The
Google group does okay when it comes to discussions, but highlighting
upcoming events (especially if you’re not a regular) is not its forte at
all.

We’ve not abandoned the Google group, but now we announce events through
both tools - and the change has been so dramatic that, as much as I’m
wary of supporting big players in any space, I’d argue that you’d be
stupid not to use Meetup. We’ve had so many new faces come along to our
events - and while we still have a long way to go for equal gender
representation (it’s still predominantly white males), it’s slowly
improving.

With the new faces appearing, we held a Newbie Night as one of our
presentation evenings (something that’s happened a couple of times
before, but certainly not frequently enough). Mario and I were lucky
enough to have [Jeremy Tennant](https://twitter.com/j10io) step up to
run this and corral several speakers to provide short, introductory
presentations on a variety of topics. (Perhaps this should become a
yearly event!)

We’re also blessed to have an excellent array of sponsors -
[Envato](http://www.envato.com), [Inspire9](http://inspire9.com),
[Zendesk](http://www.zendesk.com),
[reInteractive](http://www.reinteractive.net) and [Lookahead
Search](http://www.lookahead.com.au) have all provided a mixture of
money, space and experienced minds. We wouldn’t be where we are now
without you, your support is appreciated immensely.

Mario and I have also spent some time thinking a bit deeper about some
of the longstanding issues with tech events, and tried to push things in
a healthier direction:

At many of the last handful of meetings for this year, instead of pizza,
we’ve had finger food from the [ASRC
Catering](http://catering.asrc.org.au) service, tacos from [The Taco
Guy](http://thetacoguy.launchrock.com), and [a few
pancakes](https://twitter.com/pat/status/413590276956258304) as well. In
each case we’ve ensured there’s vegetarian, gluten-free and lactose-free
options. This trend shall certainly continue!

The drinks fridge at Inspire9 (our wonderful hosts for the past couple
of years) now have [plenty of soft drinks and sparkling mineral
water](https://twitter.com/pat/status/392483957276545025) alongside the
alcoholic options - and we’ve been pretty good at making sure jugs of
tap water are available too. There’s also tea and coffee, though we need
to be better at highlighting this.

We’ve also adopted Ruby Australia’s [Code of
Conduct](http://ruby.org.au/code-of-conduct.html) for all Melbourne Ruby
events. This is to both recognise that our community provides value and
opportunity to many, and to make it clear we want it to continue to be a
safe and welcoming place, offline and online.

We’re by no means perfect, and I’m keen to help this community grow
stronger and smarter over the coming year - but we’ve got some great
foundations to build on. The Melbourne Ruby community - and indeed, the
broader Australian Ruby community - is growing from strength to
strength, and a lot of that is due to the vast array of leaders we have,
whose shoulders we are standing on.

Alongside the regular city meets, there are [Rails
Camps](http://railscamps.com) twice a year,
[RailsGirls](http://railsgirls.com) events becoming a regular appearance
on the calendar, and the second [RubyConf
Australia](http://www.rubyconf.org.au) is in Sydney this coming
February. I’m looking forward to seeing what 2014 brings - thanks to all
who’ve been part of the ride thus far!
