---
title: "Gutentag: Simple Rails Tagging"
redirect_from: "/posts/gutentag_simple_rails_tagging"
categories:
  - ruby
  - rails
  - gems
  - examples
---
The last thing the Rails ecosystem needs is another tagging gem. But I went and built one anyway... it's called "Gutentag":http://github.com/pat/gutentag, and perhaps worth it for the name alone (something I get an inordinate amount of happiness from).

My reasons for building Gutentag are as follows:

h2. A tutorial example

I ran a workshop at "RailsConf":http://railsconf.com/ earlier this year (as a pair to "this talk":http://confreaks.com/videos/2482-railsconf2013-crafting-gems), and wanted a simple example that people could work through to have the experience of building a gem. Almost every Rails app seems to need tags, so I felt this was a great starting point - and a great way to show off how simple it is to write and publish a gem.

You can work through "the tutorial":http://railsconftutorials.com/2013/sessions/crafting_gems.html yourself if you like - though keep in mind the focus is more on the process of building a gem rather than the implementation of this gem in particular.

h2. A cleaner code example

Many gems aren't good object-oriented citizens - and this includes most of the ones I've written. They're built with long, complex classes and modules, are structured in ways that "Demeter":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Demeter does not like, and aren't particularly easy to extend cleanly.

I have the beginnings of a talk on how to structure gems (especially those that work with Rails) sensibly - but I've not yet had the opportunity to present this at any conferences.

One point that will definitely feature if I ever do get that opportunity: more and more, I like to avoid including modules into ActiveRecord and other parts of Rails - and if you peruse the source you'll see I'm only adding "the absolute minimum":https://github.com/pat/gutentag/blob/master/lib/gutentag/active_record.rb to ActiveRecord::Base, plus I've pulled out the logic around the tag names collection and resulting persistence into a "separate, simple class":https://github.com/pat/gutentag/blob/master/lib/gutentag/persistence.rb.

I got a nice little buzz when I had "Code Climate":https://codeclimate.com scan the source and give it "an A rating":https://codeclimate.com/github/pat/gutentag/ without me needing to change anything.

h2. Test-driven design

I started with tests, and wrote them in a way that made it clear how I expected the gem to behave - and then wrote the implementation to match. If you're particularly keen, you can scan through "each commit":https://github.com/pat/gutentag/commits/master to see how the gem has evolved - I tried to keep them small and focused.

Or, just have a read through of the acceptance test files - there's "only":https://github.com/pat/gutentag/blob/master/spec/acceptance/tags_spec.rb "two":https://github.com/pat/gutentag/blob/master/spec/acceptance/tag_names_spec.rb, so it won't take you long.

h2. So?

There are a large number of other tagging gems out there - and if you're using one of those already, there's no incentive at all to switch. I've used acts-as-taggable-on many times without complaints.

But Gutentag certainly works - the "README":https://github.com/pat/gutentag/blob/master/README.md outlines how you can use it - and at least people might smile every time they add it to a Gemfile. But at the end of the day, if it's just used as an example of a simple gem done well, I'll consider this a job well done.

