---
layout: ts_en
title: Rails 3
---

h2. Using Thinking Sphinx with Rails 3

Not much has changed - it's really just installation that is a little different.

h3. Installing via Bundler (as a Gem)

The 2.x releases of Thinking Sphinx will only support Rails 3 - not Rails 2 or earlier. So be careful with managing gem dependencies across multiple Rails versions. It may be worth looking at "RVM":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/.

In your Gemfile, you'll need to add the following:

{% highlight ruby %}
gem 'thinking-sphinx', '2.0.0', :require => 'thinking_sphinx'
{% endhighlight %}

Of course, you can point directly to the Git repository if you so desire - just make sure you're referencing the rails3 branch:

{% highlight ruby %}
gem 'thinking-sphinx',
  :git     => 'git://github.com/freelancing-god/thinking-sphinx.git',
  :branch  => 'rails3',
  :require => 'thinking_sphinx'
{% endhighlight %}

You do _not_ need to put the extra @require@ statement in your Rakefile - Rails 3 can determine this automatically (well, when Thinking Sphinx tells it to).

h3. Installing as a Plugin

Things are even simpler if you want Thinking Sphinx installed as a plugin, instead of managed by Bundler - just run the following shell command from within your Rails app:

{% highlight sh %}
script/rails plugin install \
  git://github.com/freelancing-god/thinking-sphinx.git
{% endhighlight %}

I don't recommend this option though - I think it's best to keep all dependencies in one place, and with Rails 3, the @Gemfile@ is that one place.
