---
layout: ts_en
title: Upgrading
---

h2. Upgrading Thinking Sphinx

Thinking Sphinx has changed quite a bit over time, and if you're upgrading from an old version, you may find some of your code needs to be changed as well. Here's a few tips...

h3. Checking the version number

In later versions of Thinking Sphinx, there is a rake task available to check your version:

{% highlight sh %}
rake thinking_sphinx:version
{% endhighlight %}

If you're using an older version of Thinking Sphinx as a gem, then just look at the gem version number. If you've got it installed as a plugin, though, then you're going to have to have a look at @vendor/plugins/thinking_sphinx/lib/thinking_sphinx.rb@, as that's where the version number was stored.

h3. Upgrading from between 1.3.6 and 1.3.17

If you're using excerpts, for this set of versions they were automatically HTML-escaped. This is now no longer the case, as Sphinx can take care of this automatically for both indexing and excerpts. Just turn on the @html_strip@ value in your @sphinx.yml@ file:

{% highlight yaml %}
html_strip: true
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Upgrading from between 1.3.3 and 1.3.7

You no longer have to specify an explicit Sphinx version when requiring Thinking Sphinx - it will figure it out itself. So, you can remove the version require statement from your @Rakefile@, and remove the version suffix in your gem setup in @environment.rb@.

h3. Upgrading from 1.3.2 or earlier (when using Sphinx 0.9.9)

If you've been using the @sphinx-0.9.9@ branch from GitHub or the @thinking-sphinx-099@ gem, there is now just one version of Thinking Sphinx that works for both versions (and automatically detects which version you have). The installation page provides a good overview of the new setup.

{% highlight ruby %}
config.gem(
  'thinking-sphinx',
  :lib     => 'thinking_sphinx',
  :version => '1.3.8'
)
{% endhighlight %}

h3. Upgrading from 1.2.13 or earlier

With the advent of Thinking Sphinx 1.3.0, the "delayed":http://github.com/freelancing-god/ts-delayed-delta/ and "datetime":http://github.com/freelancing-god/ts-datetime-delta/ delta approaches are now in separate gems. Also, Delayed Job is no longer vendored in Thinking Sphinx, so you may need to install it as a plugin as well.

The delta page has been updated to reflect these changes, so "have a read through that":deltas.html to figure out how to make sure your application will still work.

If you're not using deltas, or only using the default delta approach, then this change does not affect you.

h3. Upgrading from 1.1.17 or earlier

In versions of Thinking Sphinx _before_ 1.1.18, the morphology/stemmer defaulted to stem_en (English). Obviously, not every website uses the English language, so this setting has been removed, with no stemmer as the default.

If you would like to keep stem_en as your stemmer, you'll need to add it to your @config/sphinx.yml@ file:

{% highlight yaml %}
development:
  morphology: stem_en
test:
  morphology: stem_en
production:
  morphology: stem_en
{% endhighlight %}

To get a better understanding of stemmers, I recommend reading "Sphinx's documentation":http://www.sphinxsearch.com/docs/manual-0.9.8.html#conf-morphology.
